Added all documentation for the MVP of User-Defined APIs (#1394)
SkylineCommunications/dataminer-docs: user-guide/Advanced_Modules/User Defined APIs/UD_APIs_Troubleshooting.md

```mermaid
flowchart LR
client("User") -- "HTTP(S) request" --> a
subgraph "IIS"
    a("IIS") --> b("Rewrite Rule")
end
subgraph "Extension"
    b -- HTTP request --> c("UserDefinableApiEndpoint\nDxM")
end
subgraph "Core DataMiner"
    c -- NATS --> d("UserDefinableApiEndpointManager\n(SLNet.exe)") 
    d -- IPC --> e("SLAutomation.exe")
end
```

## Installation issues

The errors in this section can be generated when the UserDefinableApiEndpoint DxM is installed via a DataMiner upgrade package. These will be visible in the upgrade log during the upgrade and also in the `UserDefinableApiEndpoint.txt` log file as mentioned above under [Logging](#logging).

- **Could not find AspNetCore installed on this system**

  DataMiner should install ASP.NET Core 5 automatically, but in case this failed or in case it has been removed, the installer can generate this error.

  To fix this:

  1. Go to the [.NET 5 download page](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download/dotnet/5.0) and download the latest ASP.NET Core Runtime 5.

  1. On the DMA, got to the folder `C:\Skyline DataMiner\Tools\ModuleInstallers\` and run the installer `DataMiner UserDefinableApiEndpoint 1.X.X.X.msi`.

> - **Found rewrite rule, but has inconsistencies:**

Reviewer: Checked the source code, it should be "Found rewrite rule, but it has inconsistencies:"

   1. In the center pane, double-click *Application Request Routing Cache*.

   1. In the pane on the right, under *Proxy*, click *Server Proxy Settings*.

   1. Make sure that the top checkbox *Enable proxy* is selected.

1. Make sure the **UserDefinableApiEndpoint DxM is running**.

   The UserDefinableApiEndpoint DxM should always be running. To check this, open Windows Task Manager and check whether the process called *DataMiner UserDefinableApiEndpoint* is running. You can also check the *Services* tab to see if the service with the same name has the *Running* status.

   If the DxM is not running, try to start the service by right-clicking it and selecting *Start*. If the service immediately stops again, this could be because the configured port is used by another process, or because the installation is corrupt. Check the logging to find out more. If the installation is corrupt, try to install the DxM again manually.

1. Make sure the **UserDefinableApiEndpoint DxM and the manager in SLNet are connected to NATS**.

   To allow communication between the DxM and the manager in SLNet, a connection to the NATS message bus is required.

>    - For the DxM, open the [UserDefinableApiEndpointInstaller.txt](#logging) log file and check whether the log line with message "Successfully initialized the MessageBrokerWrapper" is displayed after the most recent startup. There may be errors before this that indicate that the creation of the connection had to be retried. This is fine as long as the success message is logged at the end.

Reviewer: The file should be "UserDefinableApiEndpoint.txt" instead of the one mentioned now

   - For the manager in SLNet, you can check the [SLUserDefinableApiManager.txt](#logging) log file and check for a log line with the exact same message. After that, you should also see a line stating that a subscription was made on a subject ending with "UserDefinableApiTriggerRequest".

>    - If both log files are fine, communication should be possible between the DxM and the manager in SLNet. If do not see the above-mentioned messages in the logging, something could be wrong with the NATS setup. For more information, see [investigating NATS issues](xref:Investigating_NATS_Issues).

Reviewer: In the second sentence: "if you do not see" instead of "if do not see"?

subgraph "IIS"
    a("IIS") --> b("Rewrite Rule")
end
subgraph "Extension"
    b -- HTTP request --> c("UserDefinableApiEndpoint\nDxM")
end
subgraph "Core DataMiner"
    c -- NATS --> d("UserDefinableApiEndpointManager\n(SLNet.exe)") 
    d -- IPC --> e("SLAutomation.exe")
end
```

## Installation issues

The errors in this section can be generated when the UserDefinableApiEndpoint DxM is installed via a DataMiner upgrade package. These will be visible in the upgrade log during the upgrade and also in the `UserDefinableApiEndpoint.txt` log file as mentioned in the [General](#general) section.

### 'Could not find AspNetCore installed on this system'

DataMiner should install ASP.NET Core 5 automatically, but in case this failed or it has been removed, the installer could give this error. To fix this, go to the [download page](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download/dotnet/5.0) of .NET 5 and download the latest ASP.NET Core Runtime 5. After that, you can manually rerun the installer which can be found in this  location: `C:\Skyline DataMiner\Tools\ModuleInstallers\DataMiner UserDefinableApiEndpoint 1.X.X.X.msi`.

### 'Found rewrite rule, but has inconsistencies:'

> The log line(s) after it will contain the inconsistencies of the IIS rewrite rule. This rewrite rule forwards requests coming in on port 80 or 443 to the UserDefinableApiEndpoint DxM. It should contain the correct port where the DxM is currently running on. The installer will always verify if the port mentioned in the rewrite rule matches the one that is configured in the [app settings of the DxM](xref:UD_APIs_UserDefinableApiEndpoint#configuring-the-dxm).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The log line(s) after it will contain the inconsistencies of the IIS rewrite rule. This rewrite rule forwards requests coming in on port 80 or 443 to the UserDefinableApiEndpoint DxM. It should contain the correct port where the DxM is currently running on. The installer will always verify if the port mentioned in the rewrite rule matches the one that is configured in the [appsettings file of the DxM](xref:UD_APIs_UserDefinableApiEndpoint#configuring-the-dxm).
```

### 'Port X is in use, this will cause the IIS rewrite rule to be disabled and User Definable APIs to be unusable.'

> When no rewrite rule is found in IIS, a new one will be created. When the installer detects that a process is already using the port configured in the app settings of the UserDefinableApiEndpoint DxM, it will create the rule in a disabled state and log this message. This is done to prevent opening up access to an unknown process. The UserDefinableApiEndpoint DxM won't be able to start as long as the port is not free. In this situation you can either move the current process to another port using its configuration, or configure the UserDefinableApiEndpoint DxM to use another port. See the [Kestrel](xref:UD_APIs_UserDefinableApiEndpoint#kestrel) configuration section on the UserDefinableApiEndpoint page for more info. Either way, don't forget to enable the rewrite rule where the port reflects the one configured on the DxM.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When no rewrite rule is found in IIS, a new one will be created. When the installer detects that a process is already using the port configured in the appsettings file of the UserDefinableApiEndpoint DxM, it will create the rule in a disabled state and log this message. This is done to prevent opening up access to an unknown process. The UserDefinableApiEndpoint DxM won't be able to start as long as the port is not free. In this situation you can either move the current process to another port using its configuration, or configure the UserDefinableApiEndpoint DxM to use another port. See the [Kestrel](xref:UD_APIs_UserDefinableApiEndpoint#kestrel) configuration section on the UserDefinableApiEndpoint page for more info. Either way, don't forget to enable the rewrite rule where the port reflects the one configured on the DxM.
```

### Make sure the UserDefinableApiEndpoint DxM and the manager in SLNet are connected to NATS

To allow communication between the DxM and the manager in SLNet, a connection to the NATS message bus is required.

For the DxM, you can open the [UserDefinableApiEndpointInstaller.txt](#general) log file and check whether the log line with message "Successfully initialized the MessageBrokerWrapper" can be seen after the most recent startup. There may be errors before this that indicate the creation of the connection had to be retried. This is fine as long as the success message is logged at the end.

For the manager in SLNet, you can check the [SLUserDefinableApiManager.txt](#general) log file and check for a log line with the exact same message. After that, you should also see a line stating that a subscription was made on a subject ending with "UserDefinableApiTriggerRequest".

> If both log files are fine, communication should be possible between the DxM and the manager in SLNet. If you would not see these messages, there could be something wrong with the NATS setup. There is a DataMiner docs page on [investigating NATS issues](https://docs.dataminer.services/user-guide/Troubleshooting/Procedures/Investigating_NATS_Issues.html).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If both log files are fine, communication should be possible between the DxM and the manager in SLNet. If you would not see these messages, there could be something wrong with the NATS setup. There is a DataMiner docs page on [investigating NATS issues](xref:Investigating_NATS_Issues).
```
